Update: Adding specific section for Linux Network Optimization (#4679)
MicrosoftDocs/architecture-center: docs/guide/sap/sap-s4hana.md

For more information about SAP support for Azure VM types and for throughput metrics, see [SAP note 1928533](https://launchpad.support.sap.com/#/notes/1928533). To access SAP notes, you need an SAP Service Marketplace account. For a list of certified Azure VMs for the HANA database, see [SAP certified and supported SAP HANA hardware directory](https://www.sap.com/dmc/exp/2014-09-02-hana-hardware/enEN/index.html).

> ### Optimizing Network Bandwidth on Linux Virtual Machines (VMs)
> 
> It is recommended to configure some specific parameters to achieve the best network consistency and performance on Azure Linux VMs.
> 
> For more information about optimizing network bandwidth on Linux VMs on Azure, see [Optimize Network Bandwidth on Linux VMs on Azure](/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-tcpip-performance-tuning).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Optimize network bandwidth

You should configure your virtual machine's network settings to achieve the best network consistency and performance for this scenario. For more information about optimizing network bandwidth, see [TCP/IP performance tuning for Azure VMs](/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-tcpip-performance-tuning).
```

To optimize inter-server communications, use [Accelerated Networking](/azure/virtual-network/accelerated-networking-overview). Most general-purpose and compute-optimized VM instance sizes that have two or more vCPUs support Accelerated Networking. On instances that support hyper-threading, VM instances with four or more vCPUs support Accelerated Networking.

You should also optimize the Linux TCP/IP stack and buffers in the network interface to achieve consistent performance.

1. Network buffer settings

Adjust kernel parameters to maximize read and write memory buffers. Add these configurations to ```/etc/sysctl.d/99-azure-network-buffers.conf```:

```plaintext
net.ipv4.tcp_mem = 4096 87380 67108864

> net.ipv4.udp_mem = 4096 87380 33554432
> net.ipv4.tcp_rmem = 4096 87380 67108864
> net.ipv4.tcp_wmem = 4096 65536 67108864
> net.core.rmem_default = 33554432
> net.core.wmem_default = 33554432
> net.ipv4.udp_wmem_min = 16384
> net.ipv4.udp_rmem_min = 16384
> net.core.wmem_max = 134217728
> net.core.rmem_max = 134217728
> net.core.busy_poll = 50
> net.core.busy_read = 50
> ````
> 
> 2. Congestion-Based Congestion control for kernels 4.19 and above: Enabling Bottleneck Bandwidth and Round-trip propagation time (BBR) congestion control can often result in better throughput. Add this configuration to ```/etc/sysctl.d/99-azure-congestion-control.conf```:
> 
> ```plaintext
> net.ipv4.tcp_congestion_control = bbr
> # The standard recommendation when using BBR is to enable the FQ codel, you need to test to see if either fq or pfifo_fast will work better in your deployment.
> net.core.default_qdisc = fq
> ```
> 
> 3. Extra TCP parameters that will usually help with better consistency, throughput: Add these configurations to ```/etc/sysctl.d/99-azure-network-extras.conf``` :
> 
> ```plaintext
> # For deployments where the Linux VM is BEHIND an Azure Load Balancer, timestamps MUST be set to 0
> net.ipv4.tcp_timestamps = 1
> 
> # Reuse does require tcp_timestamps to be enabled. If tcp_timestamps are disabled because of load balancers, you should set reuse to 2.
> net.ipv4.tcp_tw_reuse = 1
> 
> # Allowed local port range. This will increase the number of locally available ports (source ports)
> net.ipv4.ip_local_port_range = 1024 65535
> 
> # Maximum number of packets taken from all interfaces in one polling cycle (NAPI poll). In one polling cycle interfaces which are # registered to polling are probed in a round-robin manner.
> net.core.netdev_budget = 1000
> 
> # For high-performance environments, it's recommended to increase from the default 20KB to 65KB, in some extreme cases, for environments that support 100G+ networking, you can 
> # increase it to 1048576
> net.core.optmem_max = 65535
> 
> # F-RTO is not recommended on wired networks. 
> net.ipv4.tcp_frto = 0
> 
> # Increase the number of incoming connections / number of connections backlog
> net.core.somaxconn = 32768
> net.core.netdev_max_backlog = 32768
> net.core.dev_weight = 64
> ```
> 
> 4. Optimize NIC ring buffers for TX/RX: Create an udev rule in ```/etc/udev/rules.d/99-azure-ring-buffer.rules``` to ensure they're applied to network interfaces:
> 
> ```plaintext
> # Setup Accelerated Interface ring buffers (Mellanox / Mana) 
> SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="hv_pci", ACTION=="add",  RUN+="/usr/sbin/ethtool -G $env{INTERFACE} rx 1024 tx 1024"
> 
> # Setup Synthetic interface ring buffers (hv_netvsc)
> SUBSYSTEM=="net", DRIVERS=="hv_netvsc*", ACTION=="add",  RUN+="/usr/sbin/ethtool -G $env{INTERFACE} rx 1024 tx 1024"
> ```
> 
> For more information about optimizing network bandwidth, see [TCP/IP performance tuning for Azure VMs](/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-tcpip-performance-tuning).

Reviewer: Just needed some examples.  I love the DETAIL you had, but that needs to be in product documentation.  @bqtrinh, can you make sure this detail gets added to the right product documentation article?  It's too good to lose!

```suggestion
You should optimize the [Linux TCP/IP stack and buffers in the network interface](/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-tcpip-performance-tuning) to achieve consistent performance. Follow Microsoft recommended settings. For example, you'll adjust items such as:

- Kernel parameters to optimize read and write memory buffers
- Bottleneck bandwidth and round-trip propagation time (BBR) congestion control
- Adjust TCP parameters to bring better consistency and throughput
- NIC ring buffers for TX/RX
```
